I've been having ideas about a game
It would be magic-based instead of tech based. The gist is "fighting the forces of evil"
Rather than having one large world, you'd have a main hub that is your sanctum... that's where you'd have you crafting machines and such
From your sanctum you can open a limited number of portals to randomly generated worlds.
In each of those worlds there would be one or more dormant portals for your to find and activate that would take you to another randomly generated world that's more difficult
Each jump you get away from your sanctum, the harder the world is to survive in.
Every portal you open is temporary. It's possible to gather resources to fuel the portal to stay open longer, but with diminishing returns over time.
Each generated world would be a single biome and it each would be one or more castle/dungeon/fortress/cavern system with monster generators, monsters, and treasure.
The castles, etc would be randomly generated by assembling small castle pieces
I have rough ideas for a magic system as well.
digging and modifying the world would be done using magic instead of tools. You'd have a "Crush Earth" ability that at first can destroy one low-level earth block at a time.
and a "Raise Earth" ability that can do the same but basically extrude a block to become more blocks of that type
As you progress you can develop versions of these abilities that work on harder block types, effect a greater spread, penetrate deeper, or work more efficiently
Magic would be Earth, Air, Fire, Water, Mystic, and Shadow, and it is powered by your own energy (mana) and constructed from runes
As you adventure you'd be looking for books and tablets and such to learn more runes
The sanctum would be a sort of "lobby". You could form parties with your friends and they could come into your sanctum and take your portals and you could work together and divvy-up loot.
When a world has no more in-bound portals it gets garbage collected. Some background system is generating new worlds and evolving them with the monster and other behavior. When a player opens a portal, they're just getting a world "attached" to that portal.